## Two Way Divisible Workspaces

The Divisible Workspaces design blueprint provides a drastically simplified installation for two-way combinable rooms while leveraging Cisco Pro Series Microphones (Ceiling and Table). 

Note, this concept is **not** a Cisco native feature but a **validated blueprint** that leverages the flexibility and customization capabilities within Room OS on Cisco Video Devices to achieve a predictable outcome. 

The solution leverages the following: 
- Cisco Codec EQs or Codec Pros
- Cisco Table or Ceiling Microphone Pros (up to 8)
- Cisco Catalyst 9K Series Switches  
- Custom Macros including [Audio Zone Manager Library](https://github.com/ctg-tme/audio-zone-manager-library-macro?tab=readme-ov-file)
- Certified HDMI Distrubution Amplifiers: [Certified Third Party Devices](https://help.webex.com/en-us/article/7sw4gab/Cisco-collaboration-devices-certification-program)

| Minimum RoomOS Version | Webex Cloud | Webex Edge (Hybrid Cloud) | On-Premise | Microsoft Teams Room<br>On Cisco Devices |
|:-----------------------|:------------|:--------------------------|:-----------|:-----------------------------------------|
| 11.24              | ✅ Yes      | ✅ Yes                    | ✅ Yes**     | ❌ Not Supported   | 

** Premise deployments will require manual deployment of macros and additional configuration. Documentation pending.

### Please join this Webex messaging space for best effort and community level support: https://eurl.io/#nakTe_Vn3

---
## Table of Contents

- [Key Terminology / Files](#key-terminology--top)
- [Supported Hardware](#supported-hardware--top)
- [Installation](#installation-top)
- [User Guide](#user-guide-top)
- [Video Tutorials](#video-tutorials-)
- [Support Information](#support-information-top)
- [FAQ](#faq-)
  
---
## Key Terminology: [Top](#table-of-contents)
| **Term** | **Definition** |
|---|---|
| Primary/Primary Codec | References the codec/room that provides the main control for all Divisible state changes, actions and where the macros are installed. |
| Secondary/Secondary Codec | References the codec/room that will **not** have an active role in a combined state. |
| Audience Camera | Refers to the Quad Camera at the front of each room. |
| Presenter Camera | Refers to the Speaker Tracking enabled PTZ camera in each room. |
| DWS_AZM_Lib.js | The Audio Zone Manager Library macro. This library contains the logic needed for clean audio based events. |
| DWS_Wizard.js | The initial setup wizard functionality loaded onto the Primary Codec. |
| DWS_Setup.js | A background macro that handles the installation and base configuration. |
| DWS_Core.js | The "main" macro that handles all logic. Runs on Primary Codec. |
| DWS_Node.js | The "secondary" macro that handles tasks on the Secondary Codec. |
| DWS_State.js | This autogenerated macro handles saving state for reboots, etc. |
| ciscortr.cfg | This is the pre-configured Cisco Catalyst 9K configuration file. |
---

## Supported Hardware: [Top](#table-of-contents)

This blueprint has been validated with following Codecs:
- Codec Pro
- Codec EQ

The following Cameras have been validated:
- Cisco Quad Camera
- Cisco PTZ4K
- Cisco P60

The following Microphones have been validated:
- Cisco Table Microphone Pro
- Cisco Ceiling Microphone Pro

The following models (SKUs) of switches have been validated:
- ADD SWITCHES

## Installation: [Top](#table-of-contents)

Select one of the following configurations:

| **Codecs** | **# of Secondary Displays** | **Switch Model** | **Wire Diagram** | **Switch Config** |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2 x Codec EQs | One (1) | 9200CX 8 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images/EQ%201S%20C9K-8P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-8P/ciscortr.cfg) |
| 2 x Codec EQs | One (1) | 9200CX 12 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images/EQ%201S%20C9K-12P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-12P/ciscortr.cfg) |
| 2 x Codec Pros | One (1) | 9200CX 8 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images//Pro%201S%20C9K-8P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-8P/ciscortr.cfg) |
| 2 x Codec Pros | One (1) | 9200CX 12 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images/Pro%201S%20C9K-12P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-12P/ciscortr.cfg) |
| 2 x Codec Pros | Two (2) | 9200CX 8 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images/Pro%202S%20C9K-8P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-8P/ciscortr.cfg) |
| 2 x Codec Pros | Two (2) | 9200CX 12 Port | [Diagram](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/images/Pro%202S%20C9K-12P.png) | [Config](https://github.com/DevicesCoe/DivisibleWorkspace/blob/main/switch-configs/C9200CX-12P/ciscortr.cfg) |

**NOTE: Do NOT power on your Codecs or Switch until instructed to!**

Steps to be completed:
1.  **[Mandatory]** Please factory reset your switch (write erase) if it is **NOT** in a factory state before beginning. Power it off when the factory reset has been completed.
2.  Download the switch configuration that matches your configuration and the **DWS_Wizard.js** file.

**NOTE: You do not need to download any other macro files. These are automatically loaded by the setup process.**

2.	Physically wire the rooms according the wiring diagram that matches your configuration. 
3.	Format a USB Key to have 4G Partition with FAT32.
4.	Load the ciscortr.cfg file for your respective switch into the base directory of the USB Key. **Do NOT rename this file or put it into subfolders.**
5.	Plug the USB Key into the port on the front of the 9200CX.
6.	With the Codecs still **powered off**... **Power on the switch**. The auto-configuration will take **6 minutes** to complete from power on.
7.	Log in to Control Hub (admin.webex.com) and select **Devices** from the left hand menu.
8.	Select **Templates** at the top and click **"Create Template"**.
9.	Name the template something descriptive such as "Divisible Workspaces".
10.	Select the following configurations and values:

| **Configuration** | **Value** |
|---|---|
| HttpClient > AllowInsecureHTTPS | True |
| HttpClient > Mode | On ||
| Macros > Mode | On |
| Macros > EvaluateTranspiled | False |
| Video > Input > CameraConfigMode | Auto |

11.	**Power on your codecs** and register them to their respective Workspaces.
12.	Once fully registered, Apply the Configuration Template created above to **both** devices.
13.	Open the device page for the **Secondary Room** and click the **Actions** button.
14.	Select **Run xCommand**. Select **UserManagement** from the left menu and then select **Add** from the right side.
15.	Set the following items:

|Attribute | Value|
|---|---|
| Roles | Admin |
| Active | True |
| Username | YOUR USERNAME |
| Password | YOUR PASSWORD |
| PassphraseChangeRequired | False |

16.	Click **Execute**.
17.	Open the device page for the **Primary Room** and select **Macros**.
18.	Click **Add Macro**. Upload the **DWS_Wizard.js** downloaded from this repository. 
19.	Do **NOT** rename this macro. Ensure the **Enabled** toggle is selected. Click **Save**.
20.	On the Navigator, select **DWS Setup Wizard** from the homescreen and follow the on screen prompts. 

The above setup process will automatically install the Divisible Workspace Macros, configure the Switch to best practices configuration and initilize your divisible workspaces.
  
---
## User Guide: [Top](#table-of-contents)

- The Divisible Room blueprint automatically creates the user interface panel in the Primary Room. There is no user interface added to the secondary room.
- When in "Split" state, the User Interface Panel will show only the controls to manually perform the combine operation.
- When in "Combined" state, the User Interface Panel will reflect the combined state and show additional controls.
- The Camera Control Tab provides the end user with the ability to manage the camera automation in combined states. 
- Enabling Automatic Mode will enable the Quad Cameras in the respective rooms to be presented to the remote call/meeting based on the most active microphone. Disabling it will revert to the Primary Room's Quad Camera.
- Selecting any manual camera or fixed video composition will disable the automation for automatic switching based on microphones. You can re-enable by toggling Automatic Mode back to "On".
  
---
## Support Information: [Top](#table-of-contents)

- All Macros are considered **Custom Code** and are **NOT** supported by Cisco through the Technical Assistance Center (TAC).
- If you're considering deploying the Divisible Workspace blueprint, we recommend you engage a Cisco AV Integration Partner, not only for installation, but for configuration and ongoing support.
- The Divisible Workspace blueprint is provided AS IS, please reference the code license included above.

### Please join this Webex messaging space for best effort and community level support: https://eurl.io/#nakTe_Vn3
  
---
## FAQ: [Top](#table-of-contents)
**Is this a Cisco TAC supported deployment?**
- No. This repository is a custom blueprint and is not supported through Cisco Technical Assistance Center. Implementation, troubleshooting and support would be the responsibility of the end customer or AV Integrator.

**How many Microphone Pros (Ceiling and Table) can I use in each room?**
- Combined mode operation can support a maximum of 8 microphones. They can be split amongst either room during split operation in any variation.

**Can I use Third Party Microphones with this blueprint?**
- No, this blueprint provides support for only Cisco Pro Series Microphones.

**Can this be used for 3-way(+) divisible spaces?**
- No, this blueprint is specifically designed to support 2-way divisible spaces leveraging Ceiling Microphone Pros.

**Does this blueprint support Voice Lift / Room re-enforcement scenarions?**
- No, this blueprint does not provide for voice lift scenarios.

**Where is the Partition Sensor?**
- This blueprint does not leverage a partition sensor. The Combine/Split operation is driven manually by the end user.

**Can you help me make this do "X"?**
- Any additional capabilities would require you or your AV Integrator to make **and** support any required modifications to the provided Macros directly.
